doc/administration/self_hosted_models/litellm_proxy_setup.md, before:

---
stage: AI-Powered
group: Custom Models
description: Self Hosted model setup with an OpenAI Proxy Server (LiteLLM)
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---
# Set up a self-hosted large language model with LiteLLM

[LiteLLM](https://www.litellm.ai/) is an OpenAI proxy server. You can use LiteLLM to simplify the integration with different large language models (LLMs) by leveraging the OpenAI API spec. Use LiteLLM to easily switch between different LLMs.

```mermaid
%%{init: { "fontFamily": "GitLab Sans" }}%%
sequenceDiagram
    accTitle: LiteLLM architecture
    accDescr: Shows how GitLab sends requests to the AI Gateway when set up with the LiteLLM OpenAI proxy server.
    actor Client
    participant GitLab
    participant AIGateway as AI Gateway
    box Self Hosted setup using an OpenAI Proxy Server
        participant LiteLLM
        participant SelfHostedModel as Ollama
    end

    Client ->> GitLab: Send request
    GitLab ->> AIGateway: Create prompt and send request
    AIGateway ->> LiteLLM: Perform API request to the AI model <br> using the OpenAI format
    LiteLLM ->> SelfHostedModel: Translate and forward the request<br>to the model provider specific format
    SelfHostedModel -->> LiteLLM: Respond to the prompt
    LiteLLM -->> AIGateway: Forward AI response
    AIGateway -->> GitLab: Forward AI response
    GitLab -->> Client: Forward AI response
```

## On Kubernetes

On Kubernetes environments, Ollama can be installed with a [Helm chart](https://github.com/otwld/ollama-helm)
or following the example in [the official documentation](https://github.com/ollama/ollama/tree/main/examples/kubernetes).

## Example setup with LiteLLM and Ollama

1. Pull and serve the model with [Ollama](https://www.ollama.com/):

   ```shell
   ollama pull codegemma:2b
   ollama serve
   ```

1. Create the LiteLLM proxy configuration that routes a request from the AI Gateway directed to a specific model version instead of the generic named `codegemma` model. In this example we are using `codegemma:2b`, which is being served at `http://localhost:11434` by Ollama:

   ```yaml
   # config.yaml
   model_list:
   - model_name: codegemma
      litellm_params:
         model: ollama/codegemma:2b
         api_base: http://localhost:11434
   ```

1. Run the proxy:

   ```shell
   litellm --config config.yaml
   ```

1. Send a test request:

   ```shell
   curl --request 'POST' \
   'http://localhost:5052/v2/code/completions' \
   -H 'accept: application/json' \
   -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
   -d '{
   "current_file": {
      "file_name": "app.py",
      "language_identifier": "python",
      "content_above_cursor": "<|fim_prefix|>def hello_world():<|fim_suffix|><|fim_middle|>",
      "content_below_cursor": ""
   },
   "model_provider": "litellm",
   "model_endpoint": "http://127.0.0.1:4000",
   "model_name": "codegemma",
   "telemetry": [],
   "prompt_version": 2,
   "prompt": ""
   }' | jq
   ```

   ```json
   {
      "id": "id",
      "model": {
         "engine": "litellm",
         "name": "text-completion-openai/codegemma",
         "lang": "python"
      },
      "experiments": [],
      "object": "text_completion",
      "created": 1718631985,
      "choices": [
         {
            "text": "print(\"Hello, World!\")",
            "index": 0,
            "finish_reason": "length"
         }
      ]
   }
   ```

## Related topics

- [LiteLLM documentation](https://docs.litellm.ai/docs/providers/openai_compatible)
- [Ollama documentation](https://docs.litellm.ai/docs/providers/ollama)

Commit message:

Add Codestral as a supported model within Custom Models

doc/administration/self_hosted_models/litellm_proxy_setup.md, after:

---
stage: AI-Powered
group: Custom Models
description: Self Hosted model setup with an OpenAI Proxy Server (LiteLLM)
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---
# Set up a self-hosted large language model with LiteLLM

[LiteLLM](https://www.litellm.ai/) is an OpenAI proxy server. You can use LiteLLM to simplify the integration with different large language models (LLMs) by leveraging the OpenAI API spec. Use LiteLLM to easily switch between different LLMs.

```mermaid
%%{init: { "fontFamily": "GitLab Sans" }}%%
sequenceDiagram
    accTitle: LiteLLM architecture
    accDescr: Shows how GitLab sends requests to the AI Gateway when set up with the LiteLLM OpenAI proxy server.
    actor Client
    participant GitLab
    participant AIGateway as AI Gateway
    box Self Hosted setup using an OpenAI Proxy Server
        participant LiteLLM
        participant SelfHostedModel as Ollama
    end

    Client ->> GitLab: Send request
    GitLab ->> AIGateway: Create prompt and send request
    AIGateway ->> LiteLLM: Perform API request to the AI model <br> using the OpenAI format
    LiteLLM ->> SelfHostedModel: Translate and forward the request<br>to the model provider specific format
    SelfHostedModel -->> LiteLLM: Respond to the prompt
    LiteLLM -->> AIGateway: Forward AI response
    AIGateway -->> GitLab: Forward AI response
    GitLab -->> Client: Forward AI response
```

## On Kubernetes

On Kubernetes environments, Ollama can be installed with a [Helm chart](https://github.com/otwld/ollama-helm)
or following the example in [the official documentation](https://github.com/ollama/ollama/tree/main/examples/kubernetes).

## Example setup with LiteLLM and Ollama

1. Pull and serve the model with [Ollama](https://www.ollama.com/):

   ```shell
   ollama pull codegemma:2b
   ollama serve
   ```

1. Create the LiteLLM proxy configuration that routes a request from the AI Gateway directed to a specific model version instead of the generic named `codegemma` model. In this example we are using `codegemma:2b`, which is being served at `http://localhost:11434` by Ollama:

   ```yaml
   # config.yaml
   model_list:
   - model_name: codegemma
      litellm_params:
         model: ollama/codegemma:2b
         api_base: http://localhost:11434
   ```

1. Run the proxy:

   ```shell
   litellm --config config.yaml
   ```

1. Send a test request:

   ```shell
   curl --request 'POST' \
   'http://localhost:5052/v2/code/completions' \
   -H 'accept: application/json' \
   -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
   -d '{
   "current_file": {
      "file_name": "app.py",
      "language_identifier": "python",
      "content_above_cursor": "<|fim_prefix|>def hello_world():<|fim_suffix|><|fim_middle|>",
      "content_below_cursor": ""
   },
   "model_provider": "litellm",
   "model_endpoint": "http://127.0.0.1:4000",
   "model_name": "codegemma",
   "telemetry": [],
   "prompt_version": 2,
   "prompt": ""
   }' | jq
   ```

   ```json
   {
      "id": "id",
      "model": {
         "engine": "litellm",
         "name": "text-completion-openai/codegemma",
         "lang": "python"
      },
      "experiments": [],
      "object": "text_completion",
      "created": 1718631985,
      "choices": [
         {
            "text": "print(\"Hello, World!\")",
            "index": 0,
            "finish_reason": "length"
         }
      ]
   }
   ```

## Example setup for Codestral with Ollama

When serving the Codestral model through Ollama, there is an additional step required to make Codestral work with both code completions and code generations.

1. Pull the Codestral model:

   ```shell
   ollama pull codestral
   ```

1. Edit the default template used for Codestral:

   ```shell
   ollama run codestral
   ```

   ```shell
   >>> /set template {{ .Prompt }}
   Set prompt template.
   >>> /save codestral
   Created new model 'codestral'
   ```

## Related topics

- [LiteLLM documentation](https://docs.litellm.ai/docs/providers/openai_compatible)
- [Ollama documentation](https://docs.litellm.ai/docs/providers/ollama)
