doc/ci/environments/kubernetes_dashboard.md, before:

---
stage: Deploy
group: Environments
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Dashboard for Kubernetes

DETAILS:
**Tier:** Free, Premium, Ultimate
**Offering:** GitLab.com, Self-managed, GitLab Dedicated
**Status:** Beta

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/390769) in GitLab 16.1, with [flags](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `environment_settings_to_graphql`, `kas_user_access`, `kas_user_access_project`, and `expose_authorized_cluster_agents`. This feature is in [beta](../../policy/experiment-beta-support.md#beta).
> - Feature flag `environment_settings_to_graphql` [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/124177) in GitLab 16.2.
> - Feature flags `kas_user_access`, `kas_user_access_project`, and `expose_authorized_cluster_agents` [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/125835) in GitLab 16.2.
> - [Moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/431746) to the environment details page in 16.10.

Use the Dashboard for Kubernetes to understand the status of your clusters with an intuitive visual interface.
The dashboard works with every connected Kubernetes cluster, whether you deployed them
with CI/CD or GitOps.

![Kubernetes summary UI](img/kubernetes_summary_ui_v16_10.png)

## Configure a dashboard

> - Filtering resources by namespace [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/403618) in GitLab 16.2 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `kubernetes_namespace_for_environment`. Disabled by default.
> - Filtering resources by namespace [enabled by default](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/127043) in GitLab 16.3. Feature flag `kubernetes_namespace_for_environment` removed.
> - Selecting the related Flux resource [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/128857) in GitLab 16.3 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `flux_resource_for_environment`.
> - Selecting the related Flux resource [generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/130648) in GitLab 16.4. Feature flag `flux_resource_for_environment` removed.

Configure a dashboard to use it for a given environment.
You can configure dashboard for an environment that already exists, or
add one when you create an environment.

Prerequisites:

- A GitLab agent for Kubernetes is [configured](../../user/clusters/agent/install/index.md) and shared with the environment's project, or its parent group, using the [`user_access`](../../user/clusters/agent/user_access.md) keyword.

::Tabs

:::TabTitle The environment already exists

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Operate > Environments**.
1. Select the environment to be associated with the agent for Kubernetes.
1. Select **Edit**.
1. Select a GitLab agent for Kubernetes.
1. Optional. From the **Kubernetes namespace** dropdown list, select a namespace.
1. Optional. From the **Flux resource** dropdown list, select a Flux resource.
1. Select **Save**.

:::TabTitle The environment doesn't exist

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Operate > Environments**.
1. Select **New environment**.
1. Complete the **Name** field.
1. Select a GitLab agent for Kubernetes.
1. Optional. From the **Kubernetes namespace** dropdown list, select a namespace.
1. Optional. From the **Flux resource** dropdown list, select a Flux resource.
1. Select **Save**.

::EndTabs

## View a dashboard

> - Kubernetes watch API integration [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/422945) in GitLab 16.6 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `k8s_watch_api`. Disabled by default.
> - Kubernetes watch API integration [enabled by default](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/136831) in GitLab 16.7.
> - [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/427762) in GitLab 17.1. Feature flag `k8s_watch_api` removed.

View a dashboard to see the status of any connected clusters.
If the `k8s_watch_api` feature flag is enabled, the status of your
Kubernetes resources and Flux reconciliation updates in real time.

To view a configured dashboard:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Operate > Environments**.
1. Select the environment associated with the agent for Kubernetes.
1. Select the **Kubernetes overview** tab.

### Flux sync status

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/391581) in GitLab 16.3.
> - Customizing the name of the Flux resource [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/128857) in GitLab 16.3 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `flux_resource_for_environment`.
> - Customizing the name of the Flux resource [generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/130648) in GitLab 16.4. Feature flag `flux_resource_for_environment` removed.

You can review the sync status of your Flux deployments from a dashboard.
To display the deployment status, your dashboard must be able to retrieve the `Kustomization` and `HelmRelease` resources,
which requires a namespace to be configured for the environment.

GitLab searches the `Kustomization` and `HelmRelease` resources specified by the **Flux resource** dropdown list in the environment settings.

A dashboard displays one of the following status badges:

| Status | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| **Reconciled** | The deployment successfully reconciled with its environment. |
| **Reconciling** | A reconciliation is in progress. |
| **Stalled** | A reconciliation is stuck because of an error that cannot be resolved without human intervention. |
| **Failed** | The deployment couldn't reconcile because of an unrecoverable error. |
| **Unknown** | The sync status of the deployment couldn't be retrieved. |
| **Unavailable** | The `Kustomization` or `HelmRelease` resource couldn't be retrieved. |

## Detailed dashboard

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/11351) in GitLab 16.4, [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `k8s_dashboard`. Disabled by default.
> - [Enabled on GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/424237) in GitLab 16.7 for a subset of users.

FLAG:
The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.
This feature is available for testing, but not ready for production use.

The detailed dashboard provides information about the following Kubernetes resources:

- Pods
- Services
- Deployments
- ReplicaSets
- StatefulSets
- DaemonSets
- Jobs
- CronJobs

Each dashboard displays a list of resources with their statuses, namespaces, and age.
You can select a resource to open a drawer with more information, including labels
and YAML-formatted status, annotations, and spec.

![Kubernetes dashboard UI](img/kubernetes_dashboard_deployments_v16_9.png)

Because of the focus shift described in [this issue](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/ci-cd/deploy-stage/environments-group/general/-/issues/53#note_1720060812), work on the detailed dashboard is paused.

To provide feedback on the detailed dashboard, see [issue 460279](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/460279).

### View a detailed dashboard

Prerequisites:

- A GitLab agent for Kubernetes is [configured](../../user/clusters/agent/install/index.md) and shared with the environment's project, or its parent group, using the [`user_access`](../../user/clusters/agent/user_access.md) keyword.

The detailed dashboard is not linked from the sidebar navigation.
To view a detailed dashboard:

1. Find your agent for Kubernetes ID:
   1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
   1. Select **Operate > Kubernetes clusters**.
   1. Copy the numerical ID of the agent you want to access.
1. Go to one of the following URLs, replacing `<agent_id>` with your agent ID:

   | Resource type | URL |
   | --- | --- |
   | Pods | `https://myinstance.gitlab.com/-/kubernetes/<agent_id>/pods`|
   | Services | `https://myinstance.gitlab.com/-/kubernetes/<agent_id>/services` |
   | Deployments | `https://myinstance.gitlab.com/-/kubernetes/<agent_id>/deployments` |
   | ReplicaSets | `https://myinstance.gitlab.com/-/kubernetes/<agent_id>/replicaSets` |
   | StatefulSets | `https://myinstance.gitlab.com/-/kubernetes/<agent_id>/statefulSets` |
   | DaemonSets | `https://myinstance.gitlab.com/-/kubernetes/<agent_id>/daemonSets` |
   | Jobs | `https://myinstance.gitlab.com/-/kubernetes/<agent_id>/jobs` |
   | CronJobs | `https://myinstance.gitlab.com/-/kubernetes/<agent_id>/cronJobs` |

The detailed dashboard is displayed.

## Troubleshooting

When working with the Dashboard for Kubernetes, you might encounter the following issues.

### User cannot list resource in API group

You might get an error that states `Error: services is forbidden: User "gitlab:user:<user-name>" cannot list resource "<resource-name>" in API group "" at the cluster scope`.

This error happens when a user is not allowed to do the specified operation in the [Kubernetes RBAC](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/).

To resolve, check your [RBAC configuration](../../user/clusters/agent/user_access.md#configure-kubernetes-access). If the RBAC is properly configured, contact your Kubernetes administrator.

### GitLab agent dropdown list is empty

When you configure a new environment, the **GitLab agent** dropdown list might be empty, even if you have configured Kubernetes clusters.

To populate the **GitLab agent** dropdown list, grant an agent Kubernetes access with the [`user_access`](../../user/clusters/agent/user_access.md) keyword.

Commit message:

Add documentation for logs
Describe how to find logs,
update screenshots.

doc/ci/environments/kubernetes_dashboard.md, after:

---
stage: Deploy
group: Environments
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Dashboard for Kubernetes

DETAILS:
**Tier:** Free, Premium, Ultimate
**Offering:** GitLab.com, Self-managed, GitLab Dedicated
**Status:** Beta

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/390769) in GitLab 16.1, with [flags](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `environment_settings_to_graphql`, `kas_user_access`, `kas_user_access_project`, and `expose_authorized_cluster_agents`. This feature is in [beta](../../policy/experiment-beta-support.md#beta).
> - Feature flag `environment_settings_to_graphql` [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/124177) in GitLab 16.2.
> - Feature flags `kas_user_access`, `kas_user_access_project`, and `expose_authorized_cluster_agents` [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/125835) in GitLab 16.2.
> - [Moved](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/431746) to the environment details page in 16.10.

Use the Dashboard for Kubernetes to understand the status of your clusters with an intuitive visual interface.
The dashboard works with every connected Kubernetes cluster, whether you deployed them
with CI/CD or GitOps.

![Kubernetes summary UI](img/kubernetes_summary_ui_v17_2.png)

## Configure a dashboard

> - Filtering resources by namespace [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/403618) in GitLab 16.2 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `kubernetes_namespace_for_environment`. Disabled by default.
> - Filtering resources by namespace [enabled by default](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/127043) in GitLab 16.3. Feature flag `kubernetes_namespace_for_environment` removed.
> - Selecting the related Flux resource [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/128857) in GitLab 16.3 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `flux_resource_for_environment`.
> - Selecting the related Flux resource [generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/130648) in GitLab 16.4. Feature flag `flux_resource_for_environment` removed.

Configure a dashboard to use it for a given environment.
You can configure dashboard for an environment that already exists, or
add one when you create an environment.

Prerequisites:

- A GitLab agent for Kubernetes is [configured](../../user/clusters/agent/install/index.md) and shared with the environment's project, or its parent group, using the [`user_access`](../../user/clusters/agent/user_access.md) keyword.

::Tabs

:::TabTitle The environment already exists

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Operate > Environments**.
1. Select the environment to be associated with the agent for Kubernetes.
1. Select **Edit**.
1. Select a GitLab agent for Kubernetes.
1. Optional. From the **Kubernetes namespace** dropdown list, select a namespace.
1. Optional. From the **Flux resource** dropdown list, select a Flux resource.
1. Select **Save**.

:::TabTitle The environment doesn't exist

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Operate > Environments**.
1. Select **New environment**.
1. Complete the **Name** field.
1. Select a GitLab agent for Kubernetes.
1. Optional. From the **Kubernetes namespace** dropdown list, select a namespace.
1. Optional. From the **Flux resource** dropdown list, select a Flux resource.
1. Select **Save**.

::EndTabs

## View a dashboard

> - Kubernetes watch API integration [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/422945) in GitLab 16.6 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `k8s_watch_api`. Disabled by default.
> - Kubernetes watch API integration [enabled by default](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/136831) in GitLab 16.7.
> - [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/427762) in GitLab 17.1. Feature flag `k8s_watch_api` removed.

View a dashboard to see the status of any connected clusters.
If the `k8s_watch_api` feature flag is enabled, the status of your
Kubernetes resources and Flux reconciliation updates in real time.

To view a configured dashboard:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Operate > Environments**.
1. Select the environment associated with the agent for Kubernetes.
1. Select the **Kubernetes overview** tab.

### Flux sync status

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/391581) in GitLab 16.3.
> - Customizing the name of the Flux resource [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/128857) in GitLab 16.3 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `flux_resource_for_environment`.
> - Customizing the name of the Flux resource [generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/130648) in GitLab 16.4. Feature flag `flux_resource_for_environment` removed.

You can review the sync status of your Flux deployments from a dashboard.
To display the deployment status, your dashboard must be able to retrieve the `Kustomization` and `HelmRelease` resources,
which requires a namespace to be configured for the environment.

GitLab searches the `Kustomization` and `HelmRelease` resources specified by the **Flux resource** dropdown list in the environment settings.

A dashboard displays one of the following status badges:

| Status | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| **Reconciled** | The deployment successfully reconciled with its environment. |
| **Reconciling** | A reconciliation is in progress. |
| **Stalled** | A reconciliation is stuck because of an error that cannot be resolved without human intervention. |
| **Failed** | The deployment couldn't reconcile because of an unrecoverable error. |
| **Unknown** | The sync status of the deployment couldn't be retrieved. |
| **Unavailable** | The `Kustomization` or `HelmRelease` resource couldn't be retrieved. |

## View pod logs

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/13793) in GitLab 17.2.

View pod logs when you want to quickly understand and troubleshoot issues across your environments from a configured dashboard. You can view logs for each container in a pod.

To view your pod logs:

::Tabs

:::TabTitle From the pods list

- Select **View logs**, then select the container you want to view logs for.

:::TabTitle From the pods details view

1. Select a pod from the pod list to view its details.
1. Select the container you want to view logs for, then select **View logs**.

::EndTabs

## Detailed dashboard

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/11351) in GitLab 16.4, [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `k8s_dashboard`. Disabled by default.
> - [Enabled on GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/424237) in GitLab 16.7 for a subset of users.

FLAG:
The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.
This feature is available for testing, but not ready for production use.

The detailed dashboard provides information about the following Kubernetes resources:

- Pods
- Services
- Deployments
- ReplicaSets
- StatefulSets
- DaemonSets
- Jobs
- CronJobs

Each dashboard displays a list of resources with their statuses, namespaces, and age.
You can select a resource to open a drawer with more information, including labels
and YAML-formatted status, annotations, and spec.

![Kubernetes dashboard UI](img/kubernetes_dashboard_deployments_v16_9.png)

Because of the focus shift described in [this issue](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/ci-cd/deploy-stage/environments-group/general/-/issues/53#note_1720060812), work on the detailed dashboard is paused.

To provide feedback on the detailed dashboard, see [issue 460279](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/460279).

### View a detailed dashboard

Prerequisites:

- A GitLab agent for Kubernetes is [configured](../../user/clusters/agent/install/index.md) and shared with the environment's project, or its parent group, using the [`user_access`](../../user/clusters/agent/user_access.md) keyword.

The detailed dashboard is not linked from the sidebar navigation.
To view a detailed dashboard:

1. Find your agent for Kubernetes ID:
   1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
   1. Select **Operate > Kubernetes clusters**.
   1. Copy the numerical ID of the agent you want to access.
1. Go to one of the following URLs, replacing `<agent_id>` with your agent ID:

   | Resource type | URL |
   | --- | --- |
   | Pods | `https://myinstance.gitlab.com/-/kubernetes/<agent_id>/pods`|
   | Services | `https://myinstance.gitlab.com/-/kubernetes/<agent_id>/services` |
   | Deployments | `https://myinstance.gitlab.com/-/kubernetes/<agent_id>/deployments` |
   | ReplicaSets | `https://myinstance.gitlab.com/-/kubernetes/<agent_id>/replicaSets` |
   | StatefulSets | `https://myinstance.gitlab.com/-/kubernetes/<agent_id>/statefulSets` |
   | DaemonSets | `https://myinstance.gitlab.com/-/kubernetes/<agent_id>/daemonSets` |
   | Jobs | `https://myinstance.gitlab.com/-/kubernetes/<agent_id>/jobs` |
   | CronJobs | `https://myinstance.gitlab.com/-/kubernetes/<agent_id>/cronJobs` |

The detailed dashboard is displayed.

## Troubleshooting

When working with the Dashboard for Kubernetes, you might encounter the following issues.

### User cannot list resource in API group

You might get an error that states `Error: services is forbidden: User "gitlab:user:<user-name>" cannot list resource "<resource-name>" in API group "" at the cluster scope`.

This error happens when a user is not allowed to do the specified operation in the [Kubernetes RBAC](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/access-authn-authz/rbac/).

To resolve, check your [RBAC configuration](../../user/clusters/agent/user_access.md#configure-kubernetes-access). If the RBAC is properly configured, contact your Kubernetes administrator.

### GitLab agent dropdown list is empty

When you configure a new environment, the **GitLab agent** dropdown list might be empty, even if you have configured Kubernetes clusters.

To populate the **GitLab agent** dropdown list, grant an agent Kubernetes access with the [`user_access`](../../user/clusters/agent/user_access.md) keyword.
