doc/user/analytics/analytics_dashboards.md, before:

---
stage: Monitor
group: Product Analytics
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Analytics dashboards

DETAILS:
**Tier:** Ultimate
**Offering:** Self-managed

> - Introduced in GitLab 15.9 as an [experiment](../../policy/experiment-beta-support.md#experiment) feature [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `combined_analytics_dashboards`. Disabled by default.
> - `combined_analytics_dashboards` [enabled](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/389067) by default in GitLab 16.11.
> - `combined_analytics_dashboards` [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454350) in GitLab 17.1.

Analytics dashboards help you visualize the collected data.
You can use built-in dashboards by GitLab or create your own dashboards with custom visualizations.

## Data sources

A data source is a connection to a database or collection of data which can be used by your dashboard
filters and visualizations to query and retrieve results.

Analytics dashboards use the following data sources:

- [Product analytics](../product_analytics/index.md)
- [Value Stream Management](../analytics/value_streams_dashboard.md)

You can also add [custom visualization data sources](../../development/fe_guide/customizable_dashboards.md#adding-a-new-visualization-data-source).

## Built-in dashboards

To help you get started with analytics, GitLab provides built-in dashboards with predefined visualizations.
These dashboards are labeled **By GitLab**.
You cannot edit the built-in dashboards, but you can create custom dashboards with a similar style.

### Product analytics dashboards

When [product analytics](../product_analytics/index.md) is enabled and onboarded, two built-in dashboards are available:

- **Audience** displays metrics related to traffic, such as the number of users and sessions.
- **Behavior** displays metrics related to user activity, such as the number of page views and events.

### Value Stream Management dashboard

- **Value Streams Dashboard** displays metrics related to [DevOps performance, security exposure, and workstream optimization](../analytics/value_streams_dashboard.md#devsecops-metrics-comparison-panel).

## Custom dashboards

Use custom dashboards to design and create visualizations for the metrics that are most relevant to your use case.
You can create custom dashboards with the dashboard designer.

- Each project can have an unlimited number of dashboards.
  The only limitation might be the [repository size limit](../project/repository/reducing_the_repo_size_using_git.md#storage-limits).
- Each dashboard can reference one or more [visualizations](#define-a-chart-visualization).
- Visualizations are shared across dashboards.

Project maintainers can enforce approval rules on dashboard changes with features such as [code owners](../project/codeowners/index.md) and [approval rules](../project/merge_requests/approvals/rules.md).
Your dashboard files are versioned in source control with the rest of a project's code.

## Dashboard designer

> - Introduced in GitLab 16.1 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `combined_analytics_dashboards_editor`. Disabled by default.
> - [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/411407) in GitLab 16.6. Feature flag `combined_analytics_dashboards_editor` removed.

You can use the dashboard designer to:

- [Create custom dashboards](#create-a-custom-dashboard).
- [Edit custom dashboards](#edit-a-custom-dashboard) to:
  - Rename the dashboard.
  - Add and remove visualizations.
  - Resize or move panels.

## Visualization designer

> - Introduced in GitLab 16.4 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `combined_analytics_visualization_editor`. Disabled by default.
> - [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/425048) in GitLab 16.7. Feature flag `combined_analytics_visualization_editor` removed.

NOTE:
This feature is only compatible with the [product analytics](../product_analytics/index.md) data source.

You can use the visualization designer to:

- [Create custom visualizations](#create-a-custom-visualization).
- [Generate custom visualizations with GitLab Duo](#generate-a-custom-visualization-with-gitlab-duo).
- Explore available data.

## View project dashboards

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Developer role for the project.

To view a list of dashboards (both built-in and custom) for a project:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Analyze > Analytics dashboards**.
1. From the list of available dashboards, select the dashboard you want to view.

## View group dashboards

DETAILS:
**Tier:** Ultimate
**Offering:** GitLab.com, Self-managed, GitLab Dedicated

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/390542) in GitLab 16.2 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `group_analytics_dashboards`. Disabled by default.
> - [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/416970) in GitLab 16.8.
> - Feature flag `group_analytics_dashboards` [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/439718) in GitLab 16.11.

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Reporter role for the group.

To view a list of dashboards (both built-in and custom) for a group:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Analyze > Analytics dashboards**.
1. From the list of available dashboards, select the dashboard you want to view.

### View the Value Streams Dashboard

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/132839) in GitLab 16.6 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `group_analytics_dashboard_dynamic_vsd`. Disabled by default.
> - [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/432185) in GitLab 17.0.
> - Feature flag `group_analytics_dashboard_dynamic_vsd` [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/441206) in GitLab 17.0.

To view the Value Streams Dashboard as an analytics dashboard for a group:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Analyze > Analytics dashboards**.
1. From the list of available dashboards, select **Value Streams Dashboard**.

## Change the location of dashboards

You can change the location of your project or group dashboards.

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role for the project or group the project belongs to.

### Group dashboards

NOTE:
[Issue 411572](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/411572) proposes connecting this feature to group-level dashboards.

To change the location of a group's dashboards:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find the project you want to store your dashboard files in.
   The project must belong to the group for which you create the dashboards.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings > Analytics**.
1. In the **Analytics Dashboards** section, select your dashboard files project.
1. Select **Save changes**.

### Project dashboards

Dashboards are usually defined in the project where the analytics data is being retrieved from.
However, you can also have a separate project for dashboards.
This is recommended if you want to enforce specific access rules to the dashboard definitions or share dashboards across multiple projects.

NOTE:
You can share dashboards only between projects that are located in the same group.

To change the location of project dashboards:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project,
   or select **Create new** (**{plus}**) and **New project/repository**
   to create the project to store your dashboard files.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find the analytics project.
1. Select **Settings > Analytics**.
1. Select **Expand** to see custom dashboard projects.
1. In the **Analytics Dashboards** section, select your dashboard files project.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Define a dashboard

To define a dashboard:

1. In `.gitlab/analytics/dashboards/`, create a directory named like the dashboard.

   Each dashboard should have its own directory.
1. In the new directory, create a `.yaml` file with the same name as the directory, for example `.gitlab/analytics/dashboards/my_dashboard/my_dashboard.yaml`.

   This file contains the dashboard definition. It must conform to the JSON schema defined in `ee/app/validators/json_schemas/analytics_dashboard.json`.
1. Optional. To create new visualizations to add to your dashboard, see [defining a chart visualization](#define-a-chart-visualization).

For [example](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/blob/master/ee/lib/gitlab/analytics/product_analytics/dashboards/audience.yaml), if you want to create three dashboards (Conversion funnels, Demographic breakdown, and North star metrics)
and one visualization (line chart) that applies to all dashboards, the file structure looks like this:

```plaintext
.gitlab/analytics/dashboards
├── conversion_funnels
│  └── conversion_funnels.yaml
├── demographic_breakdown
│  └── demographic_breakdown.yaml
├── north_star_metrics
|  └── north_star_metrics.yaml
├── visualizations
│  └── example_line_chart.yaml
```

## Define a chart visualization

You can define different charts and add visualization options to some of them, such as:

- Line chart, with the options listed in the [ECharts documentation](https://echarts.apache.org/en/option.html).
- Column chart, with the options listed in the [ECharts documentation](https://echarts.apache.org/en/option.html).
- Data table.
- Single stat, with the only option to set `decimalPlaces` (number, default value is 0).

To define a chart visualization for your dashboards:

1. In the `.gitlab/analytics/dashboards/visualizations/` directory, create a `.yaml` file.
   The filename should be descriptive of the visualization it defines.
1. In the `.yaml` file, define the visualization configuration, according to the schema in
   `ee/app/validators/json_schemas/analytics_visualization.json`.

For [example](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/blob/master/ee/lib/gitlab/analytics/product_analytics/visualizations/events_over_time.yaml), to create a line chart that illustrates event count over time, in the `visualizations` folder
create a `line_chart.yaml` file with the following required fields:

- version
- type
- data
- options

To contribute, see [adding a new visualization render type](../../development/fe_guide/customizable_dashboards.md#adding-a-new-visualization-render-type).

## Create a custom dashboard

To create a custom dashboard:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Analyze > Analytics dashboards**.
1. Select **New dashboard**.
1. In the **New dashboard** input, enter the name of the dashboard.
1. From the **Add visualizations** list on the right, select the visualizations to add to the dashboard.
1. Optional. Drag or resize the selected panel how you prefer.
1. Select **Save**.

## Edit a custom dashboard

You can edit your custom dashboard's title and add or resize visualizations in the dashboard designer.

To edit an existing custom dashboard:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Analyze > Analytics dashboards**.
1. From the list of available dashboards, select a custom dashboard (one without the `By GitLab` label) you want to edit.
1. Select **Edit**.
1. Optional. Change the title of the dashboard.
1. Optional. From the **Add visualizations** list on the right, select other visualizations to add to the dashboard.
1. Optional. In the dashboard, select a panel and drag or resize it how you prefer.
1. Select **Save**.

## Create a custom visualization

To create a custom visualization:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Analyze > Analytics dashboards**.
1. Select **Visualization designer**.
1. In the **Visualization title** field, enter the name of your visualization.
1. From the **Visualization type** dropdown list, select a visualization type.
1. In the **What metric do you want to visualize?** section, select the metric you want to query.
1. Optional. To refine your query, select a dimension.
1. Select **Save**.

After you saved a visualization, you can add it to a new or existing custom dashboard in the same project.

### Generate a custom visualization with GitLab Duo

DETAILS:
**Tier:** For a limited time, Ultimate. In the future, [GitLab Duo Enterprise](../../subscriptions/subscription-add-ons.md).
**Offering:** GitLab.com
**Status:** Experiment

> - Introduced in GitLab 16.11 as an [experiment](../../policy/experiment-beta-support.md#experiment) feature [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `generate_cube_query`. Disabled by default.

Prerequisites:

- The top-level group of the project must have GitLab Duo
  [experiment and beta features enabled](../gitlab_duo/turn_on_off.md#turn-on-beta-and-experimental-features).

To generate a custom visualization with GitLab Duo using a natural language query:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Analyze > Analytics dashboards**.
1. Select **Visualization designer**.
1. In the **Visualization title** field, enter the name of your visualization.
1. From the **Visualization type** dropdown list, select a visualization type.
1. In the **Generate with GitLab Duo** section, enter your prompt. For example:

   - _Daily sessions_
   - _Number of unique users, grouped weekly_
   - _Which are the most popular pages?_
   - _How many unique users does each browser have?_

1. Select **Generate with GitLab Duo**.
1. Select **Save**.

After you save a visualization, you can add it to a new or existing custom dashboard in the same project.

## Troubleshooting

### `Something went wrong while loading the dashboard.`

If the dashboard displays a global error message that data could not be loaded, first try reloading the page.
If the error persists:

- Check that your configurations match the [dashboard JSON schema](#define-a-dashboard) defined in `ee/app/validators/json_schemas/analytics_dashboard.json`.
- For product analytics, make sure your [admin and project settings](../product_analytics/index.md#project-level-settings) are set up correctly.

### `Invalid dashboard configuration`

If the dashboard displays a global error message that the configuration is invalid, check that your configurations match the [dashboard JSON schema](#define-a-dashboard) defined in `ee/app/validators/json_schemas/analytics_dashboard.json`.

### `Invalid visualization configuration`

If a dashboard panel displays a message that the visualization configuration is invalid,
check that your visualization configurations match the [visualization JSON schema](#define-a-chart-visualization)
defined in `ee/app/validators/json_schemas/analytics_visualization.json`.

### Dashboard panel error

If a dashboard panel displays an error message:

- Make sure your [Cube query](../product_analytics/index.md#product-analytics-dashboards) and
  [visualization](../analytics/analytics_dashboards.md#define-a-chart-visualization) configurations are set up correctly.
- For [product analytics](../product_analytics/index.md), also check that your visualization's Cube query is valid.

### Generate visualization with GitLab Duo returns unexpected results

If GitLab Duo doesn't return the expected or a useful result, try editing your query to:

- Specify a date range. For example: _number of unique users in 2023 to 2024, grouped monthly_.
- Use the same names for metrics and dimensions as shown in the visualization designer.
  For example: _returning users_ instead of _existing customers_.

Commit message:

Add documentation for visualization token based query builder
Adds a section under the analytics dashboard visualization designer
documenting the new token based query builder that was added in 17.2

doc/user/analytics/analytics_dashboards.md, after:

---
stage: Monitor
group: Product Analytics
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Analytics dashboards

DETAILS:
**Tier:** Ultimate
**Offering:** Self-managed

> - Introduced in GitLab 15.9 as an [experiment](../../policy/experiment-beta-support.md#experiment) feature [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `combined_analytics_dashboards`. Disabled by default.
> - `combined_analytics_dashboards` [enabled](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/389067) by default in GitLab 16.11.
> - `combined_analytics_dashboards` [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454350) in GitLab 17.1.

Analytics dashboards help you visualize the collected data.
You can use built-in dashboards by GitLab or create your own dashboards with custom visualizations.

## Data sources

A data source is a connection to a database or collection of data which can be used by your dashboard
filters and visualizations to query and retrieve results.

Analytics dashboards use the following data sources:

- [Product analytics](../product_analytics/index.md)
- [Value Stream Management](../analytics/value_streams_dashboard.md)

You can also add [custom visualization data sources](../../development/fe_guide/customizable_dashboards.md#adding-a-new-visualization-data-source).

## Built-in dashboards

To help you get started with analytics, GitLab provides built-in dashboards with predefined visualizations.
These dashboards are labeled **By GitLab**.
You cannot edit the built-in dashboards, but you can create custom dashboards with a similar style.

### Product analytics dashboards

When [product analytics](../product_analytics/index.md) is enabled and onboarded, two built-in dashboards are available:

- **Audience** displays metrics related to traffic, such as the number of users and sessions.
- **Behavior** displays metrics related to user activity, such as the number of page views and events.

### Value Stream Management dashboard

- **Value Streams Dashboard** displays metrics related to [DevOps performance, security exposure, and workstream optimization](../analytics/value_streams_dashboard.md#devsecops-metrics-comparison-panel).

## Custom dashboards

Use custom dashboards to design and create visualizations for the metrics that are most relevant to your use case.
You can create custom dashboards with the dashboard designer.

- Each project can have an unlimited number of dashboards.
  The only limitation might be the [repository size limit](../project/repository/reducing_the_repo_size_using_git.md#storage-limits).
- Each dashboard can reference one or more [visualizations](#define-a-chart-visualization).
- Visualizations are shared across dashboards.

Project maintainers can enforce approval rules on dashboard changes with features such as [code owners](../project/codeowners/index.md) and [approval rules](../project/merge_requests/approvals/rules.md).
Your dashboard files are versioned in source control with the rest of a project's code.

## Dashboard designer

> - Introduced in GitLab 16.1 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `combined_analytics_dashboards_editor`. Disabled by default.
> - [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/411407) in GitLab 16.6. Feature flag `combined_analytics_dashboards_editor` removed.

You can use the dashboard designer to:

- [Create custom dashboards](#create-a-custom-dashboard).
- [Edit custom dashboards](#edit-a-custom-dashboard) to:
  - Rename the dashboard.
  - Add and remove visualizations.
  - Resize or move panels.

## Visualization designer

> - Introduced in GitLab 16.4 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `combined_analytics_visualization_editor`. Disabled by default.
> - [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/425048) in GitLab 16.7. Feature flag `combined_analytics_visualization_editor` removed.

NOTE:
This feature is only compatible with the [product analytics](../product_analytics/index.md) data source.

You can use the visualization designer to:

- [Create custom visualizations](#create-a-custom-visualization).
- [Generate custom visualizations with GitLab Duo](#generate-a-custom-visualization-with-gitlab-duo).
- Explore available data.

## View project dashboards

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Developer role for the project.

To view a list of dashboards (both built-in and custom) for a project:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Analyze > Analytics dashboards**.
1. From the list of available dashboards, select the dashboard you want to view.

## View group dashboards

DETAILS:
**Tier:** Ultimate
**Offering:** GitLab.com, Self-managed, GitLab Dedicated

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/390542) in GitLab 16.2 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `group_analytics_dashboards`. Disabled by default.
> - [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/416970) in GitLab 16.8.
> - Feature flag `group_analytics_dashboards` [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/439718) in GitLab 16.11.

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Reporter role for the group.

To view a list of dashboards (both built-in and custom) for a group:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Analyze > Analytics dashboards**.
1. From the list of available dashboards, select the dashboard you want to view.

### View the Value Streams Dashboard

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/132839) in GitLab 16.6 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `group_analytics_dashboard_dynamic_vsd`. Disabled by default.
> - [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/432185) in GitLab 17.0.
> - Feature flag `group_analytics_dashboard_dynamic_vsd` [removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/441206) in GitLab 17.0.

To view the Value Streams Dashboard as an analytics dashboard for a group:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Analyze > Analytics dashboards**.
1. From the list of available dashboards, select **Value Streams Dashboard**.

## Change the location of dashboards

You can change the location of your project or group dashboards.

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role for the project or group the project belongs to.

### Group dashboards

NOTE:
[Issue 411572](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/411572) proposes connecting this feature to group-level dashboards.

To change the location of a group's dashboards:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find the project you want to store your dashboard files in.
   The project must belong to the group for which you create the dashboards.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your group.
1. Select **Settings > Analytics**.
1. In the **Analytics Dashboards** section, select your dashboard files project.
1. Select **Save changes**.

### Project dashboards

Dashboards are usually defined in the project where the analytics data is being retrieved from.
However, you can also have a separate project for dashboards.
This is recommended if you want to enforce specific access rules to the dashboard definitions or share dashboards across multiple projects.

NOTE:
You can share dashboards only between projects that are located in the same group.

To change the location of project dashboards:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project,
   or select **Create new** (**{plus}**) and **New project/repository**
   to create the project to store your dashboard files.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find the analytics project.
1. Select **Settings > Analytics**.
1. Select **Expand** to see custom dashboard projects.
1. In the **Analytics Dashboards** section, select your dashboard files project.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Define a dashboard

To define a dashboard:

1. In `.gitlab/analytics/dashboards/`, create a directory named like the dashboard.

   Each dashboard should have its own directory.
1. In the new directory, create a `.yaml` file with the same name as the directory, for example `.gitlab/analytics/dashboards/my_dashboard/my_dashboard.yaml`.

   This file contains the dashboard definition. It must conform to the JSON schema defined in `ee/app/validators/json_schemas/analytics_dashboard.json`.
1. Optional. To create new visualizations to add to your dashboard, see [defining a chart visualization](#define-a-chart-visualization).

For [example](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/blob/master/ee/lib/gitlab/analytics/product_analytics/dashboards/audience.yaml), if you want to create three dashboards (Conversion funnels, Demographic breakdown, and North star metrics)
and one visualization (line chart) that applies to all dashboards, the file structure looks like this:

```plaintext
.gitlab/analytics/dashboards
├── conversion_funnels
│  └── conversion_funnels.yaml
├── demographic_breakdown
│  └── demographic_breakdown.yaml
├── north_star_metrics
|  └── north_star_metrics.yaml
├── visualizations
│  └── example_line_chart.yaml
```

## Define a chart visualization

You can define different charts and add visualization options to some of them, such as:

- Line chart, with the options listed in the [ECharts documentation](https://echarts.apache.org/en/option.html).
- Column chart, with the options listed in the [ECharts documentation](https://echarts.apache.org/en/option.html).
- Data table.
- Single stat, with the only option to set `decimalPlaces` (number, default value is 0).

To define a chart visualization for your dashboards:

1. In the `.gitlab/analytics/dashboards/visualizations/` directory, create a `.yaml` file.
   The filename should be descriptive of the visualization it defines.
1. In the `.yaml` file, define the visualization configuration, according to the schema in
   `ee/app/validators/json_schemas/analytics_visualization.json`.

For [example](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/blob/master/ee/lib/gitlab/analytics/product_analytics/visualizations/events_over_time.yaml), to create a line chart that illustrates event count over time, in the `visualizations` folder
create a `line_chart.yaml` file with the following required fields:

- version
- type
- data
- options

To contribute, see [adding a new visualization render type](../../development/fe_guide/customizable_dashboards.md#adding-a-new-visualization-render-type).

## Create a custom dashboard

To create a custom dashboard:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Analyze > Analytics dashboards**.
1. Select **New dashboard**.
1. In the **New dashboard** input, enter the name of the dashboard.
1. From the **Add visualizations** list on the right, select the visualizations to add to the dashboard.
1. Optional. Drag or resize the selected panel how you prefer.
1. Select **Save**.

## Edit a custom dashboard

You can edit your custom dashboard's title and add or resize visualizations in the dashboard designer.

To edit an existing custom dashboard:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Analyze > Analytics dashboards**.
1. From the list of available dashboards, select a custom dashboard (one without the `By GitLab` label) you want to edit.
1. Select **Edit**.
1. Optional. Change the title of the dashboard.
1. Optional. From the **Add visualizations** list on the right, select other visualizations to add to the dashboard.
1. Optional. In the dashboard, select a panel and drag or resize it how you prefer.
1. Select **Save**.

## Create a custom visualization

To create a custom visualization:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Analyze > Analytics dashboards**.
1. Select **Visualization designer**.
1. In the **Visualization title** field, enter the name of your visualization.
1. From the **Visualization type** dropdown list, select a visualization type.
1. In the **What metric do you want to visualize?** section, select a [measure or a dimension](#visualization-query-builder).
1. Select **Save**.

After you save a visualization, you can add it to a new or existing custom dashboard in the same project.

### Generate a custom visualization with GitLab Duo

DETAILS:
**Tier:** For a limited time, Ultimate. In the future, [GitLab Duo Enterprise](../../subscriptions/subscription-add-ons.md).
**Offering:** GitLab.com
**Status:** Experiment

> - Introduced in GitLab 16.11 as an [experiment](../../policy/experiment-beta-support.md#experiment) feature [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `generate_cube_query`. Disabled by default.

Prerequisites:

- The top-level group of the project must have GitLab Duo
  [experiment and beta features enabled](../gitlab_duo/turn_on_off.md#turn-on-beta-and-experimental-features).

To generate a custom visualization with GitLab Duo using a natural language query:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Analyze > Analytics dashboards**.
1. Select **Visualization designer**.
1. In the **Visualization title** field, enter the name of your visualization.
1. From the **Visualization type** dropdown list, select a visualization type.
1. In the **Generate with GitLab Duo** section, enter your prompt. For example:

   - _Daily sessions_
   - _Number of unique users, grouped weekly_
   - _Which are the most popular pages?_
   - _How many unique users does each browser have?_

1. Select **Generate with GitLab Duo**.
1. Select **Save**.

After you save a visualization, you can add it to a new or existing custom dashboard in the same project.

### Visualization query builder

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/14098) in GitLab 17.2 [with a flag](../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `analytics_visualization_designer_filtering`. Disabled by default.

FLAG:
The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.

You can use measures and dimensions to filter and refine the results of a custom visualization:

- Measures: Properties that can be calculated. Measures are aggregated by default.
- Dimensions: Attributes related to a measure. You can add multiple dimensions to a measure.

You can filter by custom event names with select measures:

- `Tracked events count`
- `Tracked events unique user count`

NOTE:
When you change or remove a measure then dependent dimensions may also be removed.

## Troubleshooting

### `Something went wrong while loading the dashboard.`

If the dashboard displays a global error message that data could not be loaded, first try reloading the page.
If the error persists:

- Check that your configurations match the [dashboard JSON schema](#define-a-dashboard) defined in `ee/app/validators/json_schemas/analytics_dashboard.json`.
- For product analytics, make sure your [admin and project settings](../product_analytics/index.md#project-level-settings) are set up correctly.

### `Invalid dashboard configuration`

If the dashboard displays a global error message that the configuration is invalid, check that your configurations match the [dashboard JSON schema](#define-a-dashboard) defined in `ee/app/validators/json_schemas/analytics_dashboard.json`.

### `Invalid visualization configuration`

If a dashboard panel displays a message that the visualization configuration is invalid,
check that your visualization configurations match the [visualization JSON schema](#define-a-chart-visualization)
defined in `ee/app/validators/json_schemas/analytics_visualization.json`.

### Dashboard panel error

If a dashboard panel displays an error message:

- Make sure your [Cube query](../product_analytics/index.md#product-analytics-dashboards) and
  [visualization](../analytics/analytics_dashboards.md#define-a-chart-visualization) configurations are set up correctly.
- For [product analytics](../product_analytics/index.md), also check that your visualization's Cube query is valid.

### Generate visualization with GitLab Duo returns unexpected results

If GitLab Duo doesn't return the expected or a useful result, try editing your query to:

- Specify a date range. For example: _number of unique users in 2023 to 2024, grouped monthly_.
- Use the same names for metrics and dimensions as shown in the visualization designer.
  For example: _returning users_ instead of _existing customers_.
