doc/user/project/repository/code_suggestions/index.md, before:

---
stage: Create
group: Code Creation
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: "Code Suggestions helps you write code in GitLab more efficiently by using AI to suggest code as you type."
---

# Code Suggestions

DETAILS:
**Tier:** Premium or Ultimate with [GitLab Duo Pro](../../../../subscriptions/subscription-add-ons.md)
**Offering:** GitLab.com, Self-managed, GitLab Dedicated

> - [Introduced support for Google Vertex AI Codey APIs](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/10562) in GitLab 16.1.
> - [Removed support for GitLab native model](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/10752) in GitLab 16.2.
> - [Introduced support for Code Generation](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/415583) in GitLab 16.3.
> - [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/435271) in GitLab 16.7.
> - Subscription changed to require GitLab Duo Pro on February 15, 2024.

NOTE:
GitLab Duo Code Suggestions requires [GitLab 16.8](https://about.gitlab.com/releases/2024/01/18/gitlab-16-8-released/) and later. Earlier GitLab versions are not supported.

Write code more efficiently by using generative AI to suggest code while you're developing.

With GitLab Duo Code Suggestions, you get:

- Code completion, which suggests completions to the current line you are typing.
- Code generation, which generates code based on a natural language code
  comment block. Write a comment like `# Type more here`, then press <kbd>Enter</kbd> to generate
  code based on the context of your comment and the rest of your code.

<i class="fa fa-youtube-play youtube" aria-hidden="true"></i>
[View a click-through demo](https://gitlab.navattic.com/code-suggestions).
<!-- Video published on 2023-12-09 --> <!-- Demo published on 2024-02-01 -->

## Use Code Suggestions

Prerequisites:

- You must have [one of the supported IDE extensions](supported_extensions.md#supported-editor-extensions).
- Your organization must have purchased the GitLab Duo Pro add-on and
  [assigned you a seat](../../../../subscriptions/subscription-add-ons.md#assign-gitlab-duo-pro-seats).
- For self-managed GitLab, you must have GitLab 16.8 or later, and have
  [configured proxy settings](../../../../subscriptions/subscription-add-ons.md#configure-network-and-proxy-settings).

To use Code Suggestions:

1. Author your code.
   As you type, suggestions are displayed. Code Suggestions provide code snippets
   or complete the current line, depending on the cursor position.

1. Describe the requirements in natural language.
   Code Suggestions generates functions and code snippets based on the context provided.

1. To accept a suggestion, press <kbd>Tab</kbd>. To reject a suggestion, press <kbd>Esc</kbd>.
1. To ignore a suggestion, keep typing as you usually would.

AI is non-deterministic, so you may not get the same suggestion every time with the same input.
To generate quality code, write clear, descriptive, specific tasks.

## Best practices

To get the best results from code generation:

- Be as specific as possible while remaining concise.
- State the outcome you want to generate (for example, a function)
  and provide details on what you want to achieve.
- Add additional information, like the framework or library you want to use.
- Add a space or new line after each comment.
  This space tells the code generator that you have completed your instructions.

For example, to create a Python web service with some specific requirements,
you might write something like:

```plaintext
# Create a web service using Tornado that allows a user to log in, run a security scan, and review the scan results.
# Each action (log in, run a scan, and review results) should be its own resource in the web service
...
```

AI is non-deterministic, so you may not get the same suggestion every time with the same input.
To generate quality code, write clear, descriptive, specific tasks.

### Best practice examples

For use cases and best practices, follow the [GitLab Duo examples documentation](../../../gitlab_duo_examples.md).

## Response time

Code Suggestions is powered by a generative AI model.

Your personal access token enables a secure API connection to GitLab.com or to your GitLab instance.
This API connection securely transmits a context window from your IDE/editor to the [GitLab AI Gateway](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/modelops/applied-ml/code-suggestions/ai-assist), a GitLab hosted service. The [gateway](../../../../development/ai_architecture.md) calls the large language model APIs, and then the generated suggestion is transmitted back to your IDE/editor.

- Code completion suggestions are usually low latency.
- For code generation:
  - Algorithms or large code blocks might take more than 10 seconds to generate.
  - Streaming of code generation responses is supported in VS Code, leading to faster average response times. Other supported IDEs offer slower response times and will return the generated code in a single block.

## Inference window context

Code Suggestions inferences against the currently opened file, the content before and after the cursor, the filename, and the extension type. For more information on possible future context expansion to improve the quality of suggestions, see [epic 11669](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/11669).

## Truncation of file content

Because of LLM limits and performance reasons, the content of the currently
opened file is truncated:

- For code completion: to 2048 tokens (roughly 8192 characters).
- For code generation: to 142,856 tokens (roughly 500,000 characters).

Content above the cursor is prioritized over content below the cursor. The content
above the cursor is truncated from the left side, and content below the cursor
is truncated from the right side. These numbers represent the maximum input context
size for Code Suggestions.

## Output length

Because of LLM limits and for performance reasons, the output of Code Suggestions
is limited:

- For code completion: to 64 tokens (roughly 256 characters).
- For code generation: to 2048 tokens (roughly 7168 characters).

## Accuracy of results

We are continuing to work on the accuracy of overall generated content.
However, Code Suggestions might generate suggestions that are:

- Irrelevant.
- Incomplete.
- Results in failed pipelines.
- Potentially insecure.
- Offensive or insensitive.

When using Code Suggestions, [code review best practice](../../../../development/code_review.md) still applies.

## Disable Code Suggestions

To disable Code Suggestions, disable the feature in your IDE editor extension.
For details, see the documentation for your extension.

If you'd prefer, you can
[turn off GitLab Duo for a group, project, or instance](../../../../user/gitlab_duo/turn_on_off.md).

## Feedback

Provide feedback about your Code Suggestions experience in [issue 435783](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/435783).

Commit message:

Add disabled_direct_code_suggestions setting
Adds disabled_direct_code_suggestions application setting which can be
used to disable direct connections to AI Gateway for code completions.

Changelog: added
EE: true

doc/user/project/repository/code_suggestions/index.md, after:

---
stage: Create
group: Code Creation
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: "Code Suggestions helps you write code in GitLab more efficiently by using AI to suggest code as you type."
---

# Code Suggestions

DETAILS:
**Tier:** Premium or Ultimate with [GitLab Duo Pro](../../../../subscriptions/subscription-add-ons.md)
**Offering:** GitLab.com, Self-managed, GitLab Dedicated

> - [Introduced support for Google Vertex AI Codey APIs](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/10562) in GitLab 16.1.
> - [Removed support for GitLab native model](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/10752) in GitLab 16.2.
> - [Introduced support for Code Generation](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/415583) in GitLab 16.3.
> - [Generally available](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/435271) in GitLab 16.7.
> - Subscription changed to require GitLab Duo Pro on February 15, 2024.

NOTE:
GitLab Duo Code Suggestions requires [GitLab 16.8](https://about.gitlab.com/releases/2024/01/18/gitlab-16-8-released/) and later. Earlier GitLab versions are not supported.

Write code more efficiently by using generative AI to suggest code while you're developing.

With GitLab Duo Code Suggestions, you get:

- Code completion, which suggests completions to the current line you are typing.
- Code generation, which generates code based on a natural language code
  comment block. Write a comment like `# Type more here`, then press <kbd>Enter</kbd> to generate
  code based on the context of your comment and the rest of your code.

<i class="fa fa-youtube-play youtube" aria-hidden="true"></i>
[View a click-through demo](https://gitlab.navattic.com/code-suggestions).
<!-- Video published on 2023-12-09 --> <!-- Demo published on 2024-02-01 -->

## Use Code Suggestions

Prerequisites:

- You must have [one of the supported IDE extensions](supported_extensions.md#supported-editor-extensions).
- Your organization must have purchased the GitLab Duo Pro add-on and
  [assigned you a seat](../../../../subscriptions/subscription-add-ons.md#assign-gitlab-duo-pro-seats).
- For self-managed GitLab, you must have GitLab 16.8 or later, and have
  [configured proxy settings](../../../../subscriptions/subscription-add-ons.md#configure-network-and-proxy-settings).

To use Code Suggestions:

1. Author your code.
   As you type, suggestions are displayed. Code Suggestions provide code snippets
   or complete the current line, depending on the cursor position.

1. Describe the requirements in natural language.
   Code Suggestions generates functions and code snippets based on the context provided.

1. To accept a suggestion, press <kbd>Tab</kbd>. To reject a suggestion, press <kbd>Esc</kbd>.
1. To ignore a suggestion, keep typing as you usually would.

AI is non-deterministic, so you may not get the same suggestion every time with the same input.
To generate quality code, write clear, descriptive, specific tasks.

## Best practices

To get the best results from code generation:

- Be as specific as possible while remaining concise.
- State the outcome you want to generate (for example, a function)
  and provide details on what you want to achieve.
- Add additional information, like the framework or library you want to use.
- Add a space or new line after each comment.
  This space tells the code generator that you have completed your instructions.

For example, to create a Python web service with some specific requirements,
you might write something like:

```plaintext
# Create a web service using Tornado that allows a user to log in, run a security scan, and review the scan results.
# Each action (log in, run a scan, and review results) should be its own resource in the web service
...
```

AI is non-deterministic, so you may not get the same suggestion every time with the same input.
To generate quality code, write clear, descriptive, specific tasks.

### Best practice examples

For use cases and best practices, follow the [GitLab Duo examples documentation](../../../gitlab_duo_examples.md).

## Response time

Code Suggestions is powered by a generative AI model.

Your personal access token enables a secure API connection to GitLab.com or to your GitLab instance.
This API connection securely transmits a context window from your IDE/editor to the [GitLab AI Gateway](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/modelops/applied-ml/code-suggestions/ai-assist), a GitLab hosted service. The [gateway](../../../../development/ai_architecture.md) calls the large language model APIs, and then the generated suggestion is transmitted back to your IDE/editor.

- Code completion suggestions are usually low latency.
- For code generation:
  - Algorithms or large code blocks might take more than 10 seconds to generate.
  - Streaming of code generation responses is supported in VS Code, leading to faster average response times. Other supported IDEs offer slower response times and will return the generated code in a single block.

### Disable direct connections to the AI Gateway

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/462791) in GitLab 17.2 [with a flag](../../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `code_suggestions_direct_access`. Disabled by default.

Prerequisites:

- You must be an administrator for the GitLab self-managed instance.

To minimize latency for code completion requests, these requests are sent from the IDE directly to the AI Gateway.
For this direct connection to work, the IDE must be able to connect to `https://cloud.gitlab.com:443`. If this is not
possible (for example, because of network restrictions), you can disable direct connections for all users. If you do this,
code completion requests are sent indirectly through the GitLab self-managed instance, and might result in your requests
having higher latency.

To disable direct connections to the gateway:

1. On the left sidebar, at the bottom, select **Admin Area**.
1. Select **Settings > General**.
1. Expand **AI-powered features**.
1. Select the **Disable direct connections for code suggestions** checkbox.

## Inference window context

Code Suggestions inferences against the currently opened file, the content before and after the cursor, the filename, and the extension type. For more information on possible future context expansion to improve the quality of suggestions, see [epic 11669](https://gitlab.com/groups/gitlab-org/-/epics/11669).

## Truncation of file content

Because of LLM limits and performance reasons, the content of the currently
opened file is truncated:

- For code completion: to 2048 tokens (roughly 8192 characters).
- For code generation: to 142,856 tokens (roughly 500,000 characters).

Content above the cursor is prioritized over content below the cursor. The content
above the cursor is truncated from the left side, and content below the cursor
is truncated from the right side. These numbers represent the maximum input context
size for Code Suggestions.

## Output length

Because of LLM limits and for performance reasons, the output of Code Suggestions
is limited:

- For code completion: to 64 tokens (roughly 256 characters).
- For code generation: to 2048 tokens (roughly 7168 characters).

## Accuracy of results

We are continuing to work on the accuracy of overall generated content.
However, Code Suggestions might generate suggestions that are:

- Irrelevant.
- Incomplete.
- Results in failed pipelines.
- Potentially insecure.
- Offensive or insensitive.

When using Code Suggestions, [code review best practice](../../../../development/code_review.md) still applies.

## Disable Code Suggestions

To disable Code Suggestions, disable the feature in your IDE editor extension.
For details, see the documentation for your extension.

If you'd prefer, you can
[turn off GitLab Duo for a group, project, or instance](../../../../user/gitlab_duo/turn_on_off.md).

## Feedback

Provide feedback about your Code Suggestions experience in [issue 435783](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/435783).
