doc/user/project/repository/code_suggestions/supported_extensions.md, before:

---
stage: Create
group: Code Creation
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: "Code Suggestions supports multiple editors and languages."
---

# Supported extensions and languages

DETAILS:
**Tier:** Premium or Ultimate with [GitLab Duo Pro](../../../../subscriptions/subscription-add-ons.md)
**Offering:** GitLab.com, Self-managed, GitLab Dedicated

Code Suggestions is available in the following editor extensions and
for the following languages.

## Supported editor extensions

To use Code Suggestions, use one of these editor extensions:

| IDE              | Extension              |
|------------------|------------------------|
| Visual Studio Code (VS Code)          | [VS Code GitLab Workflow extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitLab.gitlab-workflow)|
| [GitLab Web IDE (VS Code in the Cloud)](../../../project/web_ide/index.md)  | No configuration required. |
| Microsoft Visual Studio | [Visual Studio GitLab extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitLab.GitLabExtensionForVisualStudio) |
| JetBrains IDEs  | [GitLab Duo Plugin for JetBrains](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/22325-gitlab-duo) |
| Neovim           | [`gitlab.vim` plugin](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/editor-extensions/gitlab.vim) |

A [GitLab Language Server](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/editor-extensions/gitlab-lsp) is used in VS Code, Visual Studio, and Neovim. The Language Server supports faster iteration across more platforms. You can also configure it to support Code Suggestions in IDEs where GitLab doesn't provide official support.

You can express interest in other IDE extension support [in this issue](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/editor-extensions/meta/-/issues/78).

## Supported languages

Code Suggestions is aware of common popular programming languages, concepts, and
infrastructure-as-code interfaces, like Kubernetes Resource Model (KRM),
Google Cloud CLI, and Terraform.

Code Suggestions supports these languages:

| Language         | VS Code                | JetBrains IDEs         | Visual Studio          | Neovim |
|------------------|------------------------|------------------------|------------------------|--------|
| C                | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{dotted-circle}** No | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| C++              | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| C#               | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| CSS              | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes  | **{check-circle}** Yes  |
| Go               | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| Google SQL       | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| HTML             | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes  | **{check-circle}** Yes  |
| Java             | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| JavaScript       | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| Kotlin           | **{check-circle}** Yes <br><br>(Requires third-party extension providing Kotlin support) | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| Markdown         | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| PHP              | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| Python           | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| Ruby             | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| Rust             | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| Scala            | **{check-circle}** Yes <br><br>(Requires third-party extension providing Scala support) | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| Shell scripts (`bash` only) | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes  | **{check-circle}** Yes  |
| Swift            | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| TypeScript       | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| Terraform        | **{check-circle}** Yes <br><br>(Requires third-party extension providing Terraform support) | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{dotted-circle}** No | **{check-circle}** Yes <br><br>(Requires third-party extension providing the `terraform` file type) |

NOTE:
Some languages are not supported in all JetBrains IDEs, or might require additional
plugin support. Refer to the JetBrains documentation for specifics on your IDE.

For languages not listed in the table, Code Suggestions might not function as expected.

## Experimental features

### Add support for more languages for Code Suggestions in VS Code

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-vscode-extension/-/issues/1318) as an [experiment](../../../../policy/experiment-beta-support.md) in GitLab 17.0.

If your desired language isn't a [supported language](#supported-languages) for Code Suggestions,
you can add support for it locally.

Prerequisites:

- You have installed and enabled the
  [GitLab Workflow extension for VS Code](../../../../editor_extensions/visual_studio_code/index.md#download-the-extension).
- You have completed the [extension setup](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-vscode-extension/#setup)
  instructions, and authorized the extension to access your GitLab account.

To do this:

1. Find your desired language in the list of
   [language identifiers](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/identifiers#_known-language-identifiers)
   for VS Code. You need the **Identifier** for a later step.
1. In VS Code, open the extension settings for **GitLab Workflow**:
   1. On the top bar, go to **Code > Settings > Extensions**.
   1. Search for **GitLab Workflow** in the list, and select **Manage** (**{settings}**).
   1. Select **Extension Settings**.
   1. In your **User** settings, find
      **GitLab › Ai Assisted Code Suggestions: Additional Languages** and select **Add Item**.
1. In **Item**, add the language identifier, and select **OK**.

Commit message:

Add Viewing Multiple Code Suggestions to Code Suggestions

doc/user/project/repository/code_suggestions/supported_extensions.md, after:

---
stage: Create
group: Code Creation
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: "Code Suggestions supports multiple editors and languages."
---

# Supported extensions and languages

DETAILS:
**Tier:** Premium or Ultimate with [GitLab Duo Pro](../../../../subscriptions/subscription-add-ons.md)
**Offering:** GitLab.com, Self-managed, GitLab Dedicated

Code Suggestions is available in the following editor extensions and
for the following languages.

## Supported editor extensions

To use Code Suggestions, use one of these editor extensions:

| IDE              | Extension              |
|------------------|------------------------|
| Visual Studio Code (VS Code)          | [VS Code GitLab Workflow extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitLab.gitlab-workflow)|
| [GitLab Web IDE (VS Code in the Cloud)](../../../project/web_ide/index.md)  | No configuration required. |
| Microsoft Visual Studio | [Visual Studio GitLab extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=GitLab.GitLabExtensionForVisualStudio) |
| JetBrains IDEs  | [GitLab Duo Plugin for JetBrains](https://plugins.jetbrains.com/plugin/22325-gitlab-duo) |
| Neovim           | [`gitlab.vim` plugin](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/editor-extensions/gitlab.vim) |

A [GitLab Language Server](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/editor-extensions/gitlab-lsp) is used in VS Code, Visual Studio, and Neovim. The Language Server supports faster iteration across more platforms. You can also configure it to support Code Suggestions in IDEs where GitLab doesn't provide official support.

You can express interest in other IDE extension support [in this issue](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/editor-extensions/meta/-/issues/78).

## Supported languages

Code Suggestions is aware of common popular programming languages, concepts, and
infrastructure-as-code interfaces, like Kubernetes Resource Model (KRM),
Google Cloud CLI, and Terraform.

Code Suggestions supports these languages:

| Language         | VS Code                | JetBrains IDEs         | Visual Studio          | Neovim |
|------------------|------------------------|------------------------|------------------------|--------|
| C                | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{dotted-circle}** No | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| C++              | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| C#               | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| CSS              | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes  | **{check-circle}** Yes  |
| Go               | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| Google SQL       | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| HTML             | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes  | **{check-circle}** Yes  |
| Java             | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| JavaScript       | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| Kotlin           | **{check-circle}** Yes <br><br>(Requires third-party extension providing Kotlin support) | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| Markdown         | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| PHP              | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| Python           | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| Ruby             | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| Rust             | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| Scala            | **{check-circle}** Yes <br><br>(Requires third-party extension providing Scala support) | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| Shell scripts (`bash` only) | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes  | **{check-circle}** Yes  |
| Swift            | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| TypeScript       | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{check-circle}** Yes |
| Terraform        | **{check-circle}** Yes <br><br>(Requires third-party extension providing Terraform support) | **{check-circle}** Yes | **{dotted-circle}** No | **{check-circle}** Yes <br><br>(Requires third-party extension providing the `terraform` file type) |

NOTE:
Some languages are not supported in all JetBrains IDEs, or might require additional
plugin support. Refer to the JetBrains documentation for specifics on your IDE.

For languages not listed in the table, Code Suggestions might not function as expected.

## View Multiple Code Suggestions

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-vscode-extension/-/issues/1325) in GitLab 17.1.

For a code completion suggestion in VS Code, multiple suggestion options
might be available. To view all available suggestions:

1. Hover over the code completion suggestion.
1. Scroll through the alternatives. Either:
   - Use keyboard shortcuts. Press <kbd>Option</kbd> + <kbd>`]`</kbd> to view the 
     next suggestion, and <kbd>Option</kbd> + <kbd>`[`</kbd> to view the previous
     suggestions.
   - Select the right or left arrow to see next or previous options.
1. Press <kbd>Tab</kbd> to apply the suggestion you prefer. 

## Experimental features

### Add support for more languages for Code Suggestions in VS Code

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-vscode-extension/-/issues/1318) as an [experiment](../../../../policy/experiment-beta-support.md) in GitLab 17.0.

If your desired language isn't a [supported language](#supported-languages) for Code Suggestions,
you can add support for it locally.

Prerequisites:

- You have installed and enabled the
  [GitLab Workflow extension for VS Code](../../../../editor_extensions/visual_studio_code/index.md#download-the-extension).
- You have completed the [extension setup](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-vscode-extension/#setup)
  instructions, and authorized the extension to access your GitLab account.

To do this:

1. Find your desired language in the list of
   [language identifiers](https://code.visualstudio.com/docs/languages/identifiers#_known-language-identifiers)
   for VS Code. You need the **Identifier** for a later step.
1. In VS Code, open the extension settings for **GitLab Workflow**:
   1. On the top bar, go to **Code > Settings > Extensions**.
   1. Search for **GitLab Workflow** in the list, and select **Manage** (**{settings}**).
   1. Select **Extension Settings**.
   1. In your **User** settings, find
      **GitLab › Ai Assisted Code Suggestions: Additional Languages** and select **Add Item**.
1. In **Item**, add the language identifier, and select **OK**.
