doc/user/project/integrations/beyond_identity.md, before:

---
stage: Create
group: Source Code
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: "Integrate GitLab with Beyond Identity to verify GPG keys added to user accounts."
---

# Beyond Identity

DETAILS:
**Tier:** Premium, Ultimate
**Offering:** Self-managed, GitLab Dedicated

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/431433) in GitLab 16.9.

Configure GitLab to verify GPG keys issued by [Beyond Identity](https://www.beyondidentity.com/)
added to a user profile.

## Set up the Beyond Identity integration for your instance

Prerequisites:

- You must have administrator access to the GitLab instance.
- The email address used in the GitLab profile must be the same as the email assigned to the key in the Beyond Identity Authenticator.
- You must have a Beyond Identity API token. You can request it from their Sales Engineer.

To enable the Beyond Identity integration for your instance:

1. Sign in to GitLab as an administrator.
1. On the left sidebar, at the bottom, select **Admin Area**.
1. Select **Settings > Integrations**.
1. Select **Beyond Identity**.
1. Under **Enable integration**, select the **Active** checkbox.
1. In **API token**, paste the API token you received from Beyond Identity.
1. Select **Save changes**.

The Beyond Identity integration for your instance is now enabled.

## GPG key verification

When a user adds a GPG key to their profile, the key is verified:

- If the key wasn't issued by the Beyond Identity Authenticator, it's accepted.
- If the key was issued by the Beyond Identity Authenticator, but the key is invalid, it's rejected.
  For example: the email used in the user's GitLab profile is different from the email assigned to
  the key in the Beyond Identity Authenticator.

When a user pushes a commit, GitLab checks that the commit was signed by a GPG signature uploaded to the
user profile.
If the signature cannot be verified, the push is rejected.
Web commits are accepted without a signature.

## Skip push check for service accounts

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454369) in GitLab 16.11.

Prerequisites:

- You must have administrator access to the GitLab instance.

To skip the push check for [service accounts](../../profile/service_accounts.md):

1. Sign in to GitLab as an administrator.
1. On the left sidebar, at the bottom, select **Admin Area**.
1. Select **Settings > Integrations**.
1. Select **Beyond Identity**.
1. Select the **Exclude service accounts** checkbox.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Exclude projects from the Beyond Identity check

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454372) in GitLab 17.0 [with a flag](../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `beyond_identity_exclusions`. Enabled by default.

FLAG:
The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.
This feature is available for testing, but not ready for production use.

Prerequisites:

- You must have administrator access to the GitLab instance.

To exclude projects from the Beyond Identity check:

1. Sign in to GitLab as an administrator.
1. On the left sidebar, at the bottom, select **Admin Area**.
1. Select **Settings > Integrations**.
1. Select **Beyond Identity**.
1. Select the **Exclusions** tab.
1. Select **Add exclusions**.
1. On the drawer, search and select projects to exclude.
1. Select **Add exclusions**.

Commit message:

Integration for Beyond Identity exclusions by groups
Added Frontend/Backend integration for BI exclusions by groups

Changelog: added

doc/user/project/integrations/beyond_identity.md, after:

---
stage: Create
group: Source Code
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: "Integrate GitLab with Beyond Identity to verify GPG keys added to user accounts."
---

# Beyond Identity

DETAILS:
**Tier:** Premium, Ultimate
**Offering:** Self-managed, GitLab Dedicated

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/431433) in GitLab 16.9.

Configure GitLab to verify GPG keys issued by [Beyond Identity](https://www.beyondidentity.com/)
added to a user profile.

## Set up the Beyond Identity integration for your instance

Prerequisites:

- You must have administrator access to the GitLab instance.
- The email address used in the GitLab profile must be the same as the email assigned to the key in the Beyond Identity Authenticator.
- You must have a Beyond Identity API token. You can request it from their Sales Engineer.

To enable the Beyond Identity integration for your instance:

1. Sign in to GitLab as an administrator.
1. On the left sidebar, at the bottom, select **Admin Area**.
1. Select **Settings > Integrations**.
1. Select **Beyond Identity**.
1. Under **Enable integration**, select the **Active** checkbox.
1. In **API token**, paste the API token you received from Beyond Identity.
1. Select **Save changes**.

The Beyond Identity integration for your instance is now enabled.

## GPG key verification

When a user adds a GPG key to their profile, the key is verified:

- If the key wasn't issued by the Beyond Identity Authenticator, it's accepted.
- If the key was issued by the Beyond Identity Authenticator, but the key is invalid, it's rejected.
  For example: the email used in the user's GitLab profile is different from the email assigned to
  the key in the Beyond Identity Authenticator.

When a user pushes a commit, GitLab checks that the commit was signed by a GPG signature uploaded to the
user profile.
If the signature cannot be verified, the push is rejected.
Web commits are accepted without a signature.

## Skip push check for service accounts

- [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454369) in GitLab 16.11.

Prerequisites:

- You must have administrator access to the GitLab instance.

To skip the push check for [service accounts](../../profile/service_accounts.md):

1. Sign in to GitLab as an administrator.
1. On the left sidebar, at the bottom, select **Admin Area**.
1. Select **Settings > Integrations**.
1. Select **Beyond Identity**.
1. Select the **Exclude service accounts** checkbox.
1. Select **Save changes**.

## Exclude groups or projects from the Beyond Identity check

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454372) in GitLab 17.0 [with a flag](../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `beyond_identity_exclusions`. Enabled by default.
> - Ability to exclude groups [introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/454372) in GitLab 17.1.

FLAG:
The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.
This feature is available for testing, but not ready for production use.

Prerequisites:

- You must have administrator access to the GitLab instance.

To exclude groups or projects from the Beyond Identity check:

1. Sign in to GitLab as an administrator.
1. On the left sidebar, at the bottom, select **Admin Area**.
1. Select **Settings > Integrations**.
1. Select **Beyond Identity**.
1. Select the **Exclusions** tab.
1. Select **Add exclusions**.
1. On the drawer, search and select groups or projects to exclude.
1. Select **Add exclusions**.
