doc/user/packages/container_registry/container_protection_rules.md, before:

---
stage: Container
group: Container Registry
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Protected container repositories

DETAILS:
**Tier:** Free, Premium, Ultimate
**Offering:** GitLab.com, Self-managed
**Status:** Experiment

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/463669) in GitLab 16.7 [with a flag](../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `containers_protected_containers`. Disabled by default. This feature is an [experiment](../../../policy/experiment-beta-support.md).

FLAG:
The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.
This feature is available for testing, but not ready for production use.

By default, any user with at least the Developer role can push and delete
container images to or from container repositories. Protect a container repository to restrict
which users can make changes to container images in your container repository.

When a container repository is protected, the default behavior enforces these restrictions on the container repository and its images:

| Action                                                     | Minimum role         |
|------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|
| Protect a container repository and its container images   | The Maintainer role. |
| Push or create a new image in a container repository       | The role set in the [**Minimum access level for push**](#protect-a-container-repository-and-create-a-protection-rule) setting.   |
| Push or update an existing image in a container repository | The role set in the [**Minimum access level for push**](#protect-a-container-repository-and-create-a-protection-rule) setting    |
| Delete an existing image from a container repository       | The role set in the [**Minimum access level for delete**](#protect-a-container-repository-and-create-a-protection-rule) setting. |

## Protect a container repository and create a protection rule

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/146523) in GitLab 16.10.

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role.

To protect a container repository:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Settings > Packages and registries**.
1. Under **Protected containers**, select **Add protection rule**.
1. Complete the fields:
   - **Repository path pattern** is a container repository path you want to protect.
     The pattern can include a wildcard (`*`).
   - **Minimum access level for push** describes the minimum access level required
     to push (create or update) to the protected container repository path.
   - **Minimum access level for delete** describes the minimum access level required
     to delete from the protected container repository path.
1. Select **Protect**.

The container protection rule is created, and appears in the settings.

## Delete a container protection rule and unprotect a container repository

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/146622) in GitLab 17.0.

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role.

To unprotect a container repository:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Settings > Packages and registries**.
1. Under **Protected containers**, next to the protection rule you want to delete, select **Delete** (**{remove}**).
1. On the confirmation dialog, select **Delete**.

The container protection rule is deleted, and does not appear in the settings.

Commit message:

Protected containers: Add help text for repository path pattern input
- Add documentation for wildcard usage for package name pattern

Changelog: added

doc/user/packages/container_registry/container_protection_rules.md, after:

---
stage: Container
group: Container Registry
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://handbook.gitlab.com/handbook/product/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
---

# Protected container repositories

DETAILS:
**Tier:** Free, Premium, Ultimate
**Offering:** GitLab.com, Self-managed
**Status:** Experiment

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/463669) in GitLab 16.7 [with a flag](../../../administration/feature_flags.md) named `containers_protected_containers`. Disabled by default. This feature is an [experiment](../../../policy/experiment-beta-support.md).

FLAG:
The availability of this feature is controlled by a feature flag.
For more information, see the history.
This feature is available for testing, but not ready for production use.

By default, any user with at least the Developer role can push and delete
container images to or from container repositories. Protect a container repository to restrict
which users can make changes to container images in your container repository.

When a container repository is protected, the default behavior enforces these restrictions on the container repository and its images:

| Action                                                     | Minimum role         |
|------------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|
| Protect a container repository and its container images    | The Maintainer role. |
| Push or create a new image in a container repository       | The role set in the [**Minimum access level for push**](#protect-a-container-repository-and-create-a-protection-rule) setting.   |
| Push or update an existing image in a container repository | The role set in the [**Minimum access level for push**](#protect-a-container-repository-and-create-a-protection-rule) setting    |
| Delete an existing image from a container repository       | The role set in the [**Minimum access level for delete**](#protect-a-container-repository-and-create-a-protection-rule) setting. |

You can use a wildcard (`*`) to protect multiple container repositories with the same container protection rule.
For example, you can protect different container repositories containing temporary container images built during a CI/CD pipeline.

The following table contains examples of container protection rules that match multiple container repositories:

| Path pattern with wildcard | Example matching container repositories |
|----------------------------|-----------------------------------------|
| `group/container-*`        | `group/container-prod`, `group/container-prod-sha123456789` |
| `group/*container`         | `group/container`, `group/prod-container`, `group/prod-sha123456789-container` |
| `group/*container*`        | `group/container`, `group/prod-sha123456789-container-v1` |

You can apply several protection rules to the same container repository.
A container repository is protected if at least one protection rule matches.

## Protect a container repository and create a protection rule

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/146523) in GitLab 16.10.

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role.

To protect a container repository:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Settings > Packages and registries**.
1. Under **Protected containers**, select **Add protection rule**.
1. Complete the fields:
   - **Repository path pattern** is a container repository path you want to protect.
     The pattern can include a wildcard (`*`).
   - **Minimum access level for push** describes the minimum access level required
     to push (create or update) to the protected container repository path.
   - **Minimum access level for delete** describes the minimum access level required
     to delete from the protected container repository path.
1. Select **Protect**.

The container protection rule is created, and appears in the settings.

## Delete a container protection rule and unprotect a container repository

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/146622) in GitLab 17.0.

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Maintainer role.

To unprotect a container repository:

1. On the left sidebar, select **Search or go to** and find your project.
1. Select **Settings > Packages and registries**.
1. Under **Protected containers**, next to the protection rule you want to delete, select **Delete** (**{remove}**).
1. On the confirmation dialog, select **Delete**.

The container protection rule is deleted, and does not appear in the settings.
